---
layout: project
title: "Bloccit"
date: 2016-07-10
excerpt: "Bloccit was my first Rails application in the Bloc curriculum. It is a simple Reddit clone with the typical Reddit functionality, topics, posts, comments, upvoting and user authentication."
tags: [getting, started, podcasts, music, story]
feature: http://imgur.com/a/QtZT5
comments: true
---

Bloccit was my first Rails application in the Bloc curriculum. It is a simple Reddit clone with the typical Reddit functionality, topics, posts, comments, upvoting and user authentication.  This was my first venture into Test Driven Development (TDD).

**Tools Used**
* RSpec - testing
* Bootstrap - styling
* Ajax & JQuery - page updates without reloading
* FactoryGirl - generating test objects
* Shoulda - testing
* SQLite3 - development/testing environment database
* PostgreSQL - Heroku database
* NyanCat Formatter - just for fun and more satisfying passing tests

## Test Driven Development

As I mentioned, it was my first app to develop with TDD and it was an interesting learning experience. I generated tests and ran tests, before actually implementing the feature these tests were created for. It’s a great way to breakdown HOW to actually build a feature. Most people think with their end goal in mind, and so working on a project from the end goal then to the actual development, made each feature implantation, astoundingly simple.

I used RSpec for testing with the NyanCat formatter, just for fun. In all I generated 284 different tests for the features and it’s oddly satisfying to see NyanCat fly across my terminal screen.

IMG

Here’s an example of my testing code for my Post controller:

I learned how deep you can get with tests to test functionality, and I didn’t even have to touch Capybara or another framework to realize that. I know I technically only scratched the surface of testing with this project, but, I can see how deep the rabbit hole goes.

FactoryGirl was useful for generating objects I needed for the tests without having to constantly rewrite the same 2-4 lines of code, keeping my code more DRY.

## User Authentication

Instead of using a gem, like Devise or OmniAuth, I was taken down a route of generating my own sessions for authentication. This was a great for not only learning how to create my own authentication, but also to see how “easy” it was to do so. Mind you, this wasn’t the most secure app in the world, and I wouldn’t recommend storing your SSN on it, at this time, I did learn the basic framework to use it. This is a great overview and a tutorial I watched around it to learn how to do it.

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0w5nUz4zVGg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Debugging

I frequently would get done with a feature, only to have the tests I wrote just 45 minutes earlier fail. I would then read through the error, and learned that the “rails fix suggester” isn’t tremendously helpful. A few times it was, but the majority of the time I’d peruse the error message and use Google or a fellow student to figure out the problem.

If the error message was too ambiguous or I was just plain too ignorant for it, I had a process for figuring out the problem. I typically made the majority of my syntax errors in the views. For some reason, the stupid  `<%= %>` would get me a lot of the time.

**Pro-tip** if it’s rendered on the page it has an `=` if it didn’t render it doesn’t have it. That tip will cost $42 plus tax. Thanks.

If I didn’t immediately see something as novice as that in my view, I’d check my controller methods.

## Ruby or Rails

I found this problem rather recently but I was having trouble discerning whether or not what I was writing was Rails magic, or just plain ruby over a framework. Sometimes it was easy to tell like with the `has_secure_password` method (rails, duh) or my `if then` logic (ruby). Other times, I wrote something and I wasn’t 100% sure which it was. I know over my next few projects, I’ll start to be able to discern.

## API

Building the API was fantastic. You’re able to process `post`, `put`, and `get` requests fairly easily with it, rendering everything in `JSON`. Of course, TDD was used for this as well.
